Add Design for Allowing Object-Level Resource Status Restore (#8403)
vmware-tanzu/velero: design/resource-status-restore.md

This design adds an annotation-based approach to allow controllers to specify status restoration at the instance level, enabling Velero to handle status restores more flexibly.

## Goals
- Provide a mechanism to specify the restoration of a resource’s status at an instance level.
- Maintain backwards compatibility with existing functionality, allowing gradual adoption of this feature.
- Integrate the new annotation-based instance-level status restore with Velero’s existing resource-type-level `restoreStatus` configuration.

## Non-Goals
- Alter Velero’s existing resource type-level status restoration mechanism.

## Use-Cases/Scenarios

1. Controller managing specific Resources
  - A resource controller identifies that a specific instance of a resource should have its status restored due to particular dependencies
  - The controller automatically sets the `velero.io/restore-status: true` annotation on the resource.

>   - During restore, Velero restores the status of this instance, while leaving other resources unaffected.

Reviewer: Will velero also annotate that it had restored the status on the resource? That would help with debugging why a resource is a certain status if a controller did not expect its resouce status to be modified by other controllers (velero).

Author: I think current source of truth is the Restore CR spec and that is sufficient for why the status was restored.

Reviewer: I see. Thanks.

2. Resource-Type level Restore
  - A user specifies a resource type (e.g., workflows) in the restoreStatus.includedResources field within the Restore custom resource.
  - Velero restores the status for all objects of the specified resource type, regardless of whether they have the `velero.io/restore-status` annotation.

3. Default Behavior for objects Without the Annotation
  - objects without the `velero.io/restore-status` annotation behave as they currently do: Velero skips their status restoration unless the resource type is specified in the `restoreStatus.includedResources` field.

## High-Level Design

- Object-Level Status Restore Annotation: We are introducing the `velero.io/restore-status` annotation at the resource object level to mark specific objects for status restoration.
  - `true`: Indicates that the status should be restored for this object, even if the resource type is not listed in `restoreStatus.includedResources`.

>   - Absence: Indicates no special treatment, and the object will only restore status if its resource type is in `restoreStatus.includedResources`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `<false|empty>`: Indicates no special treatment, and the object will only restore status if its resource type is in `restoreStatus.includedResources`.
```

>   - `false` (or absence): Indicates no special treatment, and the instance will only restore status if its resource type is in `restoreStatus.includedResources`.

Author: Done

>   - `false` (or absence): Indicates no special treatment, and the instance will only restore status if its resource type is in `restoreStatus.includedResources`.

Reviewer 2: @reasonerjt I think there is value in supporting "false" and "true" as valid values. "true" means "restore status for this particular item, even if this resource type in general won't get status.", "false" means "don't restore status for this particular item, even if this resource type in general does get status". This would resolve a case where one item in particular behaves badly on restore with status restore but the other items of this type needed it.
So "true" and "false" are values with a specific meaning. Any other value is equal to absence.

>   - `false` (or absence): Indicates no special treatment, and the instance will only restore status if its resource type is in `restoreStatus.includedResources`.

Reviewer 2: This also simplifies the processing (and documentation):
If there's an annotation with a valid value of "true" or "false", then use that, else use the restore spec field.

>   - `false` (or absence): Indicates no special treatment, and the instance will only restore status if its resource type is in `restoreStatus.includedResources`.

Author: Done, updated the design PTAL @sseago @reasonerjt !
